Gradient metrics
================

To isolate CO2 gradients driven by Southern Ocean fluxes, we examine CO2 anomalies relative to a local reference, using potential temperature (θ) to delineate boundaries in the vertical (SM). We define a metric quantifying the vertical CO2 gradient, ∆θCO2, as the difference between the median value of CO2 observed south of 45°S where θ < 280 K and that in the mid- to upper-troposphere, 295 K < θ < 305 K. The aircraft observations suggest that the amplitude of seasonal variation in CO2 is minimized within this upper θ range relative to the rest of the column (Fig. S7); it is also above the vertical extent of wintertime, near-surface homogeneity (Fig. 2A) and below altitudes significantly influenced by the stratosphere, making it a good reference for detecting regional air-sea flux signals (see SM). Similarly, we define a metric of the horizontal surface gradient, ∆yCO2, as the difference between CO2 averaged across stations in the core latitudes of summertime CO2-drawdown (shaded region, Fig. 1C, D) and that at the South Pole Observatory (SPO). ∆θCO2 is strongly negative in the austral summer, followed by near-neutral conditions in the austral winter through spring (Fig. 2B). Correspondingly, ∆yCO2 also indicates summertime drawdown at the surface and weakly-positive to near-neutral conditions in winter (Fig. 2C), though the amplitude of seasonal variation in ∆θCO2 is more than 3 times larger than that in ∆yCO2. Variation in drawdown intensity across stations contributing to ∆yCO2 likely reflects differential sampling of air exposed to strong ocean productivity signals (Fig. S4). 


We develop inferences about air-sea CO2 fluxes from these gradient metrics by examining a collection of atmospheric inverse models that simulate time-varying, three-dimensional CO2 fields sampled to replicate observations (SM). The inverse models demonstrate that seasonality in ∆θCO2 and ∆yCO2 is dominated by Southern Ocean air-sea fluxes. 